Walls of fire on one side,
rivers of lava on the other.
the hot, smoldering canyon,
We snaked our way through
so parched and blistered
our skin
as thick as armor.
it was, it was
( crowd murmurs )
had set out with 40 legions,
Kang and Koloth and I
and now only we three remained
to take on T'nag's army.
Chanting a battle cry...
You know what I like
about Klingon stories,
Commander?
...his eyes bulging...
Nothing.
Lots of people die,
and nobody
makes any profit.
...his bat'leth in the other,
I saw him kill two dozen men.
Do you believe
a word of this?
Snaking along rivers of lava,
past walls of fire...
not very likely.
Three against an army?
Even more unlikely.
Yeah, but who cares?
He tells it well.
Kang took the high ground,
and keeping the three suns
to his back,
he forced the enemy to fight him
against the blinding light.
When Kang told the story,
you took the high ground.
Who gets the credit
is of no importance.
What matters is this:
In the end, the mountainside was
covered with dead, so that not
ground could be seen.
one square meter of
We found T'nag's body...
its waters red with blood.
by the river,
Which of us had slain him...
no one could say for certain,
so...
we cut out his heart,
and all three of us...
feasted on it together.
Big heart.
( all chuckling )
( both laughing )
You need more bloodwine.
had enough for a year.
Oh, thanks, but I've
What I need is tea.
Mr. Worf, I didn't
see you come in.
I was just about
to leave.
introduce you to Kor.
Join us. I'll
No!
It might make the Dahar
Master uncomfortable.
I am considered an outcast
by most Klingons.
Kor isn't like most Klingons.
Kor.
Hmm?
I'd like you to meet.
I have someone
Oh?
I'd like you to meet
our Strategic Operations
Officer,
Commander Worf.
Oh, Worf, the traitor.
The pariah.
of the low.
The lowest
It's a pleasure to meet you.
Any enemy of Gowron
and the High Council
is a friend of mine.
This is a great honor.
Oh, no doubt.
Worf is a great admirer
of yours.
Ah.
Yes, please.
Oh.
stories about you
I have heard
since I was a child.
with Kirk on Organia,
Your confrontation
your attack on Romulus,
of the Korma Pass...
your defense
Everything I have done
pales in comparison
about to achieve.
to what I am
I am on a quest--
a quest for the most
revered icon
in Klingon history.
Kor...
An icon that predates
the Klingon Empire.
than the Torch of G'boj...
An icon more sacred
Kor...
more revered
than Sabak's armor,
and more coveted
than the Emperor's crown.
The Sword of Kahless.
Ah...
to tell anybody.
You told me not
He guessed.
the Sword rests.
I know where
glory, the honor
Think of the
the bat'leth
of finding
of the first
warrior king.
Lost for a millennium.
would change Klingon history.
Its return
If you know where it is,
we must bring it back
to the Emperor.
"We"?
It would be an honor
to accompany you,
if you will have me.
We could use another strong arm.
And a stout heart.
Besides, it will annoy Gowron.
( chuckling )
To return the Sword
to our people.
I would give my life
for that chance.
Children will
sing our names
for a thousand years.
They'll erect statues of us
in the hall of heroes.
DAX: Before you decide
on a pose for that statue,
we need to find the Sword.
What makes you so sure
you know where it is?
This.
Now, you see?
See what?
DAX:
on the cloth.
The imprint
Yes, yes...
the Sword of Kahless.
this held
You could carpet this station
Don't be so sure.
with all the "authentic"
Shrouds of the Sword
that people have tried
to peddle.
No one tried to peddle this.
It was given to me.
By whom?
I'll tell you everything later.
Now I need you
its authenticity.
to confirm
I'll look it over in the lab
first thing in the morning.
Why not right now?
is swimming in bloodwine
Right now, my head
and I'm going to bed
and so should you.
Oh, absolutely.
what's left in my cup.
As soon as I finish
Maj ram, blood brother.
Maj ram.
Imagine the look
on Gowron's face
when we present the Sword
to the Emperor.
( chuckling )
( humming )
MALE:
Kor...
( electrical sparking )
( gagging )
( sighs deeply )
Open your mind.
( door chimes )
( snorting )
Oh, what?
DAX: Couldn't find the bed?
Hmm?
( grumbling )
Damn that Ferengi
and his replicated bloodwine.
Worf looked
a little bleary-eyed
in Ops this morning.
How late did you
keep him up?
Until that toad-faced Ferengi
threw us out of his bar.
And then where did you go?
( mumbling )
Worf's quarters, I-I think.
Oh, that's right.
a bottle of Yridian brandy
He had
for a special occasion.
he was saving
Like meeting you.
Well, he was honored
to join our quest.
if there's going to be a quest.
That is,
What did you find?
and Hur'q DNA on the cloth
I found both Klingon
of metallic compounds
and traces
that could only have been left
by a Klingon bat'leth.
A bat'leth...
1,400 years old.
The time of Kahless!
Ah! I never doubted it.
Oh, when do we leave?
to Captain Sisko,
After I talk
and after you answer
a few questions.
Now where did you
get this?
The Gamma Quadrant?
A Vulcan geological
survey team
on an uncharted planet
was mining bakrinium
unearthed some ancient ruins.
when they accidentally
several artifacts to study,
They brought back
including the cloth.
ambassador to Vulcan.
Kor was the Klingon
When he saw the cloth,
Kor recognized
the markings
and got them to give it
to him as a gift.
but the markings were Hur'q.
They didn't realize it,
Hur'q...
that's the Klingon word
for outsiders, isn't it?
invaded our homeworld
Yes. The Hur'q
over 1,000 years ago.
Whatever they could not pillage,
they destroyed.
They took the Sword,
searching for it ever since.
and my people have been
It is said its return
will bring back
for the Klingon Empire.
a new era of glory
the Emperor will be able
With the Sword,
to unite my people
once again.
And if two Starfleet officers
in recovering the Sword,
were involved
that might go a long way
between the Klingons and us.
toward patching things up
WORF:
That is my hope
as well, Captain.
What about you, old man?
You want to go along
for the adventure.
Hard to pass up
a good quest.
you'll want a runabout.
I suppose
WORF:
The, uh, Rio Grande
is available.
Try to bring it back
in one piece.
We'll do our best.
Benjamin, thanks.
Mr. Worf, lay in a course
for the wormhole.
Course laid in.
Ahead half...
Wait.
Let this moment be remembered.
For on this day, we three,
Kor, Dahar Master
of the Klingons,
a joined Trill of seven lives,
Jadzia Dax,
and thorn in Gowron's side...
and Worf, son of Mogh
into the eye of destiny.
together stepped forth
Now?
Now.
Ahead half thrusters.
Glorious.
Hey.
Forgive me, Commander.
crowded in here.
It's a little
I would have used the aft
quarters for my exercise,
but the Dahar Master
is resting.
I know, I heard him snoring
through the bulkhead.
Commander.
I wish to thank you
for introducing
me to Kor.
It is an honor
to be here.
he invited you,
And I'm glad
even if it does make things
a little crowded.
( gargling )
Oh, I slept
KOR:
like an Alvanian
cave sloth.
the most magnificent dream.
Oh, but I had
were in the Hall of Heroes,
I dreamt the three of us
presenting the bat'leth
to the Emperor.
near the statues
We stood
of Kang and Koloth,
and as the crowd
sang out our names...
astonishing thing happened.
the most
Their statues came to life.
flesh and blood again,
Kang and Koloth were
and we held the Sword high!
Kang, Koloth and Kor...
together again.
a standard orbit.
We have assumed
I'm reading a series
structures and tunnels
of interconnected
beneath the surface.
several kilometers
And that is all that
remains of the Hur'q,
the great plunderers
of the galaxy.
And now it is time for us
to reclaim what is ours.
Assuming we can find
where to look.
It's a big planet.
The Vulcan survey team
was meticulous.
during their mining operation.
They mapped the entire area
Now, the Sword should be
in the chamber
the Central Museum,
that once was
along with all the other great
treasures looted by the Hur'q.
It's the structure
furthest north.
There is a force field
around that chamber.
they couldn't get through it.
The Vulcans told me
We'll be the first inside.
this force field before?
Why didn't you mention
Oh, it's not important.
I'll know you'll get past it.
We should be just outside
the force field.
must be back there.
The main chamber
Let's get to work.
First we need to modulate
the field destabilizers
an interference pattern.
to create
It's not working.
Try reversing
the polarity.
That helped.
increase the amplitude
Now, if we can just
of the interference field.
Well done, my friends.
The air.
Foul, isn't it?
This place has been undisturbed
for hundreds of years.
Come!
It's been ransacked.
The Vulcans may not
have gotten in here,
but someone did.
DAX: Whoever did this
has taken everything.
I'm sorry, Kor.
Don't be sorry for me.
Be sorry for the Empire.
If we could find out
who did this,
to track them down.
we might be able
For all we know,
the Sword is halfway across
the galaxy by now.
a worthy quest.
Sounds like
For you and Worf, perhaps,
but not for me.
My last chance for glory
dies here.
take a look at this.
WORF: Commander,
The dust... it does not
reach the wall.
be repelling it.
Something must
I'm getting a faint
electrostatic charge
along this section.
Another force field?
a holographic projection.
Masked by
Are you saying
there may be another
chamber behind it?
If there is, I don't know
how we can get into it.
This shield has completely
different harmonics
than the one in the entrance.
This... this is a sensor
focused on the area
of the force field.
directly in front
to read life signs.
It must be keyed
Why?
So only the Hur'q can enter?
If you're right, we're going
to need a Hur'q tour guide
to get us through.
the sensor into thinking
We may be able to fool
that we are Hur'q.
We can reconfigure the tricorder
to emit Hur'q life signs.
Exactly.
the DNA readings
I still have
we got from the cloth.
( tricorder beeping )
I feel like a Hur'q already.
I cannot believe it.
WORF:
For a thousand years,
our people have dreamed
of this moment.
The age, the composition,
the design--
everything's right.
How can you doubt it?
Look at it!
It's more beautiful
than I imagined.
You should be the
first to hold it.
How does it feel?
Good.
Very, very good.
To think, Kahless himself
once held this bat'leth.
With this he slew Molor,
conquered the Fek'Ihri,
and forged the First Empire.
And now, I hold it
in my hands.
We should go.
The field destabilizers
won't hold for long.
Stop where you are!
KLINGON:
Well, Kor,
seems you were right.
You did find the Sword.
Who are you?
Ask your friend.
This is Toral from
the House of Duras.
to see you, too, Worf.
It is good
Seems you were too drunk
to remember me
or the tavern
on Torna IV?
You held us
all spellbound
with a tale of a Hur'q cloth
to lead you to the Sword.
and how it was going
that I sent my friend here
I was so intrigued
to see what else
you knew.
What we all want.
What do you want?
The Sword.
The Sword is for the Emperor.
Who will be
so grateful,
he'll give Kor his statue
and perhaps even forgive
your dishonor?
I'm afraid I have different
plans for the Sword.
You think that if you give
the emperor the Sword,
he will restore your family's
seat on the High Council.
the emperor anything.
I'm not giving
With the Sword in my hand,
I'll be leading the Empire.
your face, Worf,
I can see from
having spared my life.
that you regret
Now give it to me.
No.
we'll have to take it.
Then I'm afraid
If he wants it...
give it to him.
( grunting )
Let's go!
( groans )
( cries out )
( yells )
We need to stop
the bleeding.
We better get you
up to the ship.
Dax to Rio Grande.
( pulsating static )
That is a Klingon
jamming signal.
Can we override it?
Maybe from the surface.
Kor, go make sure no
one's following us.
Did you see the look
on the face
of that Klingon
that I killed?
the honor bestowed upon him.
It was as if he understood
in a thousand years
The first man
by the Sword of Kahless.
to be killed
I'm sure he was
very proud.
We should keep moving.
Toral will find a way
past the force field.
you had spared his life?
Why did Toral say that
When it was discovered
that the House of Duras
had conspired to destroy
my father's honor,
Gowron offered me
Toral's life.
Under the Right
of Vengeance.
I declined.
Why?
He had done nothing.
He was a boy.
That's beside
the point.
It was a matter
of honor.
It was Worf's right
to decline.
It was a mistake.
Perhaps what they say about you
is true.
You've been around humans
too long.
Kor!
If he hadn't spared
Toral's life,
we'd be on the way to Kronos.
And if you had not been drunk
and told a tavern full of people
what you were planning,
Toral would not have followed us
here in the first place.
I told them nothing
of consequence.
How could I know that Toral
was going send a Lethean
to steal my thoughts?
You should have been
more discreet.
And you should have been
more of a Klingon.
Kor, what was that
all about?
Hmm?
Worf admires you.
( snorts )
You have no idea
how much it meant
for him to be invited
on this journey.
Tell me, Dax, how well
do you know him?
Well enough. Why?
I'm beginning to think
in my judgment of him.
I was too lenient
Any Klingon who denies himself
the Right of Vengeance
is no Klingon at all.
He dishonors the Sword
with his presence.
I don't trust him.
I should have let him stay
on that space station
where he belongs.
( whispers ):
Worf.
HoH!
( grunts )
What is it?
DAX:
Lunch.
Delicious, isn't it?
A hunt builds
the appetite.
It's disgusting.
a good part of the story--
Ah, but it'll make
how we slew the beast?
Remember?
It attacked us from the dark,
five meters long.
Oh, ten at least.
DAX:
fangs like daggers.
Eyes ablaze,
Breathing great
plumes of fire.
( laughing )
Oh, it seems the son of Mogh
is not amused.
A true warrior has no need
to exaggerate his feats.
You'd better hope
KOR:
that I exaggerate
singing songs about this quest,
or else when they start
and come to your verse,
"and Worf came along."
it will be,
( laughing )
with pleasure )
( grunting
This is the Sword of Kahless.
It is not something
to shovel food
into your mouth.
It must be treated with honor.
Hmm, hmm, hmm, look at him.
He's like the Hur'q.
it's a museum piece.
He thinks
( laughing )
Why, Kahless himself used it
to skin the serpent of Xol
to harvest his father's field
of his own beloved.
to carve a statue
It's a sword!
But Worf doesn't know
what to do with it,
except bow before it
to his precious emperor.
and then hand it over
And when we do, you will get
your precious statue
and after they have sung songs
about you,
and you have passed out
from too much drink,
the emperor will use the Sword
to unite our people.
If Gowron allows him.
is merely his puppet.
The emperor
The emperor is no one's puppet.
He condemned Gowron's invasion
of Cardassia.
And the invasion
despite his objection.
went ahead
That is why the emperor
needs the Sword.
It will allow him to unify
the Houses against Gowron.
a clone of the original Kahless,
The emperor is a pretender,
by ambitious clerics.
cooked up in a vat
And if you hadn't supported him,
he'd be right back in that vat
where he came from.
because we need him.
I supported him
He can unite us.
The Sword will unite us
by a true Klingon,
if it's held
not a politician like Gowron
or some toothless figurehead
like the emperor.
in the hands of someone
The Sword must rest
hardened by battle,
who has been
pure of heart,
who understands loyalty,
and honor.
A warrior like Kang and Koloth.
Someone like you?
The Empire could do far worse.
get moving.
We should
it is your intention
Are you saying
to lead the Empire?
( chuckling ):
Ah...
I'm saying it's my intention
to lead us to the surface.
We have to change
your bandage.
No. We must
keep moving.
You're hemorrhaging.
We have to stop
the bleeding.
That cave-rat
was all bones.
I need another one.
Find a nice fat one.
something to eat.
We all could use
He never answered
my question
about his plans
for the Sword.
I noticed.
He is a hero to many.
If he brings it back
with him to Kronos,
and decides to seize power,
many will follow him.
But you wouldn't?
I thought he was.
He is not all
Maybe not.
Sorry.
But I've known him
a long time
in the right place.
and his heart's
He drinks too much.
He exaggerates
his feats.
for his own mistakes
He blames others
but he could be right
about one thing.
The emperor may be too weak
to stand against Gowron,
even with the Sword.
I thought you believed
in the emperor.
I do not know what
I believe anymore.
All I know is when Kor
asked me to help him
I knew we would succeed.
find the Sword,
I knew we would find it.
I can't say I felt
the same way.
I had no doubt.
was finally coming into focus.
I felt as if my life
What do you mean?
as I can remember,
For as long
I have always been
an outsider.
I was raised by humans,
but I was too Klingon
to be one of them.
I did not belong.
I begged my foster parents
the Klingon Homeworld.
to allow me to visit
They arranged for me to stay
with my cousin's family.
on the Great Domes of Kronos,
When I first set eyes
I felt that I had
finally come home.
But my own cousins wanted
nothing to do with me.
You were
too human
to be one of them.
I ran away into
the mountains.
I was without food or water
for three days.
in the caves of No'Mat,
But there,
in a vision and told me
Kahless appeared to me
no other Klingon had ever done.
I would do something
After I returned to Earth,
I pondered the meaning
of his words
what lay ahead for me.
and wondered
When I was old enough,
I joined Starfleet.
Something no Klingon
had ever done.
For a time, I thought that
I had fulfilled my destiny,
but now I see Kahless had
something else in mind for me.
Something... something greater.
That is why I had to endure
so much pain.
Why I was forced to choose
between the Federation
and my own people.
I was being tested.
Prepared for some...
some greater purpose.
More than that.
Like finding the Sword.
When I held
the Sword in my hand,
I felt the spirit of Kahless
himself had guided me to it.
Don't you see?
He wants me to have it.
He wants me to lead his people!
You sound like Kor.
Kor is an old man.
His greatest days
are behind him,
and mine are still ahead.
bit of a problem.
Then we have a
There's only one Sword,
and you both want it.
How much further?
KOR:
DAX: The way
these caves wind around,
this could take forever.
( grunting )
Or longer.
We can't get across.
KOR:
and find another way up.
We'll go back
Wait.
There.
( yelling )
( groaning )
Kor, there's a ledge
WORF:
right below you.
I don't see it.
It is less than
one meter down.
Let go and you'll
land on it.
Dax, can you see it?
I can't see anything.
( groaning )
I can't hold you.
You'll have to let go!
There is no ledge!
It is there!
Then you let go.
No.
We cannot risk losing the Sword.
Let go!
Sword to my grave
I'll take the
before I give it to you.
Just hold on.
We'll pull you up.
( both groaning )
You call that a ledge?
have been sufficient.
It would
For a Degebian mountain goat,
not a Klingon warrior.
You were going to let me fall.
You wanted me to die,
the Sword for yourself.
so you can keep
And you were willing to take
the Sword to your death
and rob our people
of their future.
Give it to me!
That's enough,
both of you!
I will not give him the Sword.
Then give it to me.
I'll carry it.
Kor, put away your dagger.
Are you siding with him?
so he can give me the bat'leth.
Put away your dagger,
You see? I was right.
He's not to be trusted.
His mind has been poisoned
with bloodwine and age.
about one thing.
He was right
You wanted him to fall.
have never supported him
That ledge would
and you knew it.
I did not force him
off that cliff.
He is old and clumsy.
If he'd have fallen,
it would have been
his own fault.
I'm exhausted.
Commander...
we can rest in here
for a few hours.
I'm so tired
be able to sleep.
I think I might
the first watch.
I will take
How generous of you.
( laughing ):
And we'll just curl up
like trusting children
under your vigilant gaze.
Sleep or do not sleep.
difference to me.
It makes no
I should take the first watch.
You're wounded.
You get some rest.
You close your eyes.
I am not tired.
Hmm...
( sighing )
I understand.
It's hard to sleep
in the presence
of something so magnificent.
Someone might try
to steal it.
You reveal your own intentions.
Enough.
and it's not going anywhere.
I have the Sword,
What was that?
I heard nothing.
A voice.
KOR:
I hear it again.
It's the spirit of Kahless.
He's talking
to you, Worf.
He's telling you
to bide your time.
Let them sleep
and then slit their throats
and claim your destiny.
drunken ramblings, old man.
I have had enough of your
enough of both of you.
And I have had
if you sleep or not.
I don't care
But I'm going to.
So be quiet.
Go ahead and sleep, Dax.
KOR:
I'll keep an eye on him.
I have had enough!
WORF:
What!
His eyes.
at me for three hours.
He has been staring
And what have you seen
reflected in my eyes?
Your own guilt
gnawing at you.
All right.
to sleep, then let's walk.
If you're not going
with this traitorous p'tak.
I'm not going anywhere
This ends here.
Agreed.
to stand here...
I am not going
You stay out of this.
This is between us.
KOR:
We'll settle it in our own way.
We've got to get out of here!
DAX:
MaH HIv DaH!
to get himself killed.
He's going
No, no, he has the Sword.
( grunting )
HIv DaH!
( yells )
( grunts )
( yelling )
It's mine!
KOR:
Kor!
Commander!
Worf!
Stop!
( both groaning loudly )
( sighs in frustration )
Dax, I knew in the end
you'd choose me.
Be quiet!
We're blood brothers.
( groans )
Now, about that
jamming device
you're using to block
our communications.
Are you sure of this, Worf?
Yes.
( sighing )
the only way.
Yes, it is
Do we have the right?
This Sword belongs
to all Klingons.
But are we ready for it?
This Sword turned you and me
against each other.
Imagine how it would
divide the Empire.
Just let me hold it
one last time...
The Sword is not
meant for us.
our destiny to find it.
It was never
It was our destiny to find it.
You're wrong.
It just wasn't our destiny...
to keep it.
It is done.
Good. It's for the best.
I hope you're right.
for another thousand years.
It could be lost
When it is destined
to be found...
it will be.